Welcome to the next section of our course.
And in this section we are going to talk about understanding, chaining and runnables in Lange chain.
So this is one of the most important concept that we need to understand.
Because as you know this is a Lange chain.
And there is a chain word there already.
And that is the power of the Lange chain itself.
And that is what we are going to be doing over here.
The chaining mechanism and a runnable are also one of the most important concept that you need to understand.
So let's see what we are going to talk about this runnables in first place.
So if you remember in our last section while we were working with we had got this what is called as
the Lange Smith Lange chain.
And then there is a template and we were passing the chat prompt template with the role.
And also we were passing it the message to the large language model in the local machine.
And these are the things which are happening.
And now I have added two gear symbol there.
So this gear is nothing but runnables just assume it that that is what these two are.
So this runnables what it does really is that they are responsible for executing an action.
So in in this long chain, every single operation that you perform like prompt.
For example, if you call an invoke methods, if you remember from the prompt we can call the invoke
method.
Then it is a runnable.
And in the large language model we can also call the invoke method.
So basically that is an runnable as well.
And similarly if you're going to be creating probably an agent or a retriever or an output parser,
any of these things that you create in the long chain, these are all considered as runnables.
So just to get back to the details of the runnable.
So in long chain runnable interface is the foundation of working with the long chain component.
And it's implemented across many of them such as language models, output parsers, retrievers, compiled
language, long chain graphs, and more.
And this is the details that you have to cover.
Or maybe you can just read through about it.
But one thing that we have to even understand is the long chain expression language, or LCL.
That is something that we will talk about while we talk about chaining mechanism.
But over here on the Runnables, you will notice that this is the overview of the Runnables.
The runnable way defines the standard interface that allows runnable components to invoke batch, stream
and inspected composed.
You remember in our last section of our course, the last lecture, we were talking about this what
is called as a streaming operation.
And we also did the invoke operation over here.
We also did the invoke for the templates, which is the prompt templates.
And we can also do the exact same thing for the string output or agents or whatever that we are creating.
We can do the invoke.
So whichever, whichever component that you can do an invoke or stream and bind, then those components
are essentially a runnable component or runnable interfaces or implementing the runnable interfaces
behind the scene.
And that is what this particular thing is.
You can run this particular runnable interface in parallel, as you can see over here with the batch
operation.
And you can also run the Runnables in asynchronous operation.
You can also run the runnable in the streaming operation.
And also you can do runnable with quite a lot of different input and output types, which essentially
means that you can pass the Runnables as an input type to another runnable component, and then you
can perform the operation.
So let me tell you what I really mean about that.
So if you go back to our diagram over here, this is this entire thing, maybe this this entire thing,
we can convert it as a runnable, and then we can convert this runnable output.
And we can pass it to another runnable as an input.
So this can be an input to another runnable that we wanted to create.
And then we can move on from there.
And that is the concept of chaining.
And that is the reason why I don't want to cover it over here.
So basically this runnable input runnable output, you can pass it as an input to another runnable.
And the same thing keeps on going from there on.
So you can keep doing that any further section over here and then you can chain all these operations.
And that is what is called as the chaining operation.
So basically you can just do like this.
So this is going to be one runnable.
This is going to be another uh runnable over here.
So this is a runnable one.
And this is a runnable two something like that.
Uh where is the text.
There.
Runnable one.
And this is going to be runnable two.
I mean, the entire thing I'm talking about and this can be a runnable three for that matter.
So we can chain all of these, uh, in our actual execution with a chain.
And we call this as chaining operation as well.
I will talk about that later on.
I don't want to confuse you there, but you got the idea of how the Runnables are really created and
working in the actual Lang Chain library.